README.md, before:

<div style="text-align: center">
  <p align="center">
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubevela/kubevela.io/main/docs/resources/KubeVela-03.png">
    <br><br>
    <i>Make shipping applications more enjoyable.</i>
  </p>
</div>

![Build status](https://github.com/kubevela/kubevela/workflows/E2E/badge.svg)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/kubevela/kubevela)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/kubevela/kubevela)
![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/oamdev/vela-core)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/kubevela/kubevela/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/kubevela/kubevela)
[![LICENSE](https://img.shields.io/github/license/kubevela/kubevela.svg?style=flat-square)](/LICENSE)
[![Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/release/kubevela/kubevela/all.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/kubevela/kubevela/releases)
[![TODOs](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://api.tickgit.com/badge?repo=github.com/kubevela/kubevela)](https://www.tickgit.com/browse?repo=github.com/kubevela/kubevela)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url?style=social&url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Foam_dev)](https://twitter.com/oam_dev)
[![Artifact HUB](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://artifacthub.io/badge/repository/kubevela)](https://artifacthub.io/packages/search?repo=kubevela)
[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/4602/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/4602)

## Introduction

KubeVela is a modern application delivery platform that makes deploying and operating applications across today's hybrid, multi-cloud environments easier, faster and more reliable.

![](docs/resources/what-is-kubevela.png)

## Highlights

KubeVela practices the "render, orchestrate, deploy" workflow with below highlighted values added to existing ecosystem:

- *Application Centric* - KubeVela introduces [Open Application Model (OAM)](https://oam.dev/) as the consistent yet higher level API to capture and render a full deployment of microservices on top of hybrid environments. Placement strategy, traffic shifting and rolling update are declared at application level. No infrastructure level concern, simply deploy.

- *Programmable Workflow* - KubeVela models application delivery as DAG (Directed Acyclic Graph) and expresses it with [CUE](https://cuelang.org/) - a modern data configuration language. This allows you to design application deployment steps per needs and orchestrate them in programmable approach. No restrictions, natively extensible.

- *Infrastructure Agnostic* - KubeVela works as an application delivery control plane that is fully decoupled from runtime infrastructure. It can deploy any workload types including containers, cloud services, databases, or even VM instances to any cloud or Kubernetes cluster, following the workflow designed by you.

## Getting Started

- [Introduction](https://kubevela.io/docs)
- [Installation](https://kubevela.io/docs/install)
- [Design Your First Deployment Plan](https://kubevela.io/docs/quick-start)

## Documentation

Full documentation is available on the [KubeVela website](https://kubevela.io/).

## Blog

Official blog is available on [KubeVela blog](https://kubevela.io/blog).

## Community

We want your contributions and suggestions! 
One of the easiest ways to contribute is to participate in discussions on the Github Issues/Discussion, chat on IM or the bi-weekly community calls.
For more information on the community engagement, developer and contributing guidelines and more, head over to the [KubeVela community repo](https://github.com/kubevela/community).

### Contact Us

Reach out with any questions you may have and we'll make sure to answer them as soon as possible!

- Slack:  [CNCF Slack kubevela channel](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01BLQ3HTJA) (*English*)
- [DingTalk Group](https://page.dingtalk.com/wow/dingtalk/act/en-home): `23310022` (*Chinese*)
- Wechat Group (*Chinese*): Broker wechat to add you into the user group.
 
  <img src="https://static.kubevela.net/images/barnett-wechat.jpg" width="200" />

### Community Call

Every two weeks we host a community call to showcase new features, review upcoming milestones, and engage in a Q&A. All are welcome!

- Bi-weekly Community Call:
  - [Meeting Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nqdFEyULekyksFHtFvgvFAYE-0AMHKoS3RMnaKsarjs).
  - [Video Records](https://kubevela.io/videos/meetings/en/meetings).
- Bi-weekly Chinese Community Call:
  - [Video Records](https://kubevela.io/videos/meetings/cn/v1.3).

## Talks and Conferences

| Engagement | Link        |
|:-----------|:------------|
| 🎤  Talks | - [KubeVela - The Modern App Delivery System in Alibaba](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CWCLcsKpDQB3bBDTfdv2BZ8ilGGJv2E8L-iOA5HMrV0/edit?usp=sharing) |
| 🌎 KubeCon | - [ [NA 2020] Standardizing Cloud Native Application Delivery Across Different Clouds](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0yhVuBIbHcI) <br> - [ [EU 2021] Zero Pain Microservice Development and Deployment with Dapr and KubeVela](https://sched.co/iE4S) |
| 📺 Conferences | - [Dapr, Rudr, OAM: Mark Russinovich presents next gen app development & deployment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eJCu6a-x9uo) <br> - [Mark Russinovich presents "The Future of Cloud Native Applications with OAM and Dapr"](https://myignite.techcommunity.microsoft.com/sessions/82059)|

For more talks, please checkout [KubeVela Talks](https://kubevela.io/videos/talks/en/standardizing-app).

## Contributing

Check out [CONTRIBUTING](./CONTRIBUTING.md) to see how to develop with KubeVela.

## Report Vulnerability

Security is a first priority thing for us at KubeVela. If you come across a related issue, please send email to security@mail.kubevela.io .

## Code of Conduct

KubeVela adopts [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md).

Commit message:

Chore: change the key features and add the demo entrance
Signed-off-by: barnettZQG <barnett.zqg@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

<div style="text-align: center">
  <p align="center">
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubevela/kubevela.io/main/docs/resources/KubeVela-03.png">
    <br><br>
    <i>Make shipping applications more enjoyable.</i>
  </p>
</div>

![Build status](https://github.com/kubevela/kubevela/workflows/E2E/badge.svg)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/kubevela/kubevela)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/kubevela/kubevela)
![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/oamdev/vela-core)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/kubevela/kubevela/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/kubevela/kubevela)
[![LICENSE](https://img.shields.io/github/license/kubevela/kubevela.svg?style=flat-square)](/LICENSE)
[![Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/release/kubevela/kubevela/all.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/kubevela/kubevela/releases)
[![TODOs](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://api.tickgit.com/badge?repo=github.com/kubevela/kubevela)](https://www.tickgit.com/browse?repo=github.com/kubevela/kubevela)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url?style=social&url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Foam_dev)](https://twitter.com/oam_dev)
[![Artifact HUB](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://artifacthub.io/badge/repository/kubevela)](https://artifacthub.io/packages/search?repo=kubevela)
[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/4602/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/4602)

## Introduction

KubeVela is a modern application delivery platform that makes deploying and operating applications across today's hybrid, multi-cloud environments easier, faster and more reliable.

![kubevela](docs/resources/what-is-kubevela.png)

## Key Features

KubeVela practices the "render, orchestrate, deploy" workflow with below highlighted values added to existing ecosystem:

* Deployment as Code

Declare your deployment plan as workflow, run it automatically with any CI/CD or GitOps system, extend or re-program the workflow steps with CUE. No add-hoc scripts, no dirty glue code, just deploy. The deployment workflow in KubeVela is powered by [Open Application Model](https://oam.dev/).

* Built-in security and compliance building blocks

Choose from the wide range of LDAP integrations we provided out-of-box, enjoy multi-cluster authorization that is fully automated, pick and apply fine-grained RBAC modules and customize them per your own supply chain requirements.

* Multi-cloud/hybrid-environments app delivery as first-class citizen

Progressive rollout across test/staging/production environments, automatic canary, blue-green and continuous verification, rich placement strategy across clusters and clouds, fully managed cloud environments provision.

## Getting Started

We provide a demo environment for you quickly experience:

Demo Address: [http://demo.kubevela.net](http://demo.kubevela.net)

Demo Account(username/password): demo / KubeVela666

> This account has limited permissions, to get full capabilities please install your own environment.

* [Introduction](https://kubevela.io/docs)
* [Installation](https://kubevela.io/docs/install)
* [Deploy Your Application](https://kubevela.io/docs/quick-start)

## Documentation

Full documentation is available on the [KubeVela website](https://kubevela.io/).

## Blog

Official blog is available on [KubeVela blog](https://kubevela.io/blog).

## Community

We want your contributions and suggestions! 
One of the easiest ways to contribute is to participate in discussions on the Github Issues/Discussion, chat on IM or the bi-weekly community calls.
For more information on the community engagement, developer and contributing guidelines and more, head over to the [KubeVela community repo](https://github.com/kubevela/community).

### Contact Us

Reach out with any questions you may have and we'll make sure to answer them as soon as possible!

- Slack:  [CNCF Slack kubevela channel](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01BLQ3HTJA) (*English*)
- [DingTalk Group](https://page.dingtalk.com/wow/dingtalk/act/en-home): `23310022` (*Chinese*)
- Wechat Group (*Chinese*): Broker wechat to add you into the user group.
 
  <img src="https://static.kubevela.net/images/barnett-wechat.jpg" width="200" />

### Community Call

Every two weeks we host a community call to showcase new features, review upcoming milestones, and engage in a Q&A. All are welcome!

- Bi-weekly Community Call:
  - [Meeting Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nqdFEyULekyksFHtFvgvFAYE-0AMHKoS3RMnaKsarjs).
  - [Video Records](https://kubevela.io/videos/meetings/en/meetings).
- Bi-weekly Chinese Community Call:
  - [Video Records](https://kubevela.io/videos/meetings/cn/v1.3).

## Talks and Conferences

| Engagement | Link        |
|:-----------|:------------|
| 🎤  Talks | - [KubeVela - The Modern App Delivery System in Alibaba](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CWCLcsKpDQB3bBDTfdv2BZ8ilGGJv2E8L-iOA5HMrV0/edit?usp=sharing) |
| 🌎 KubeCon | - [ [NA 2020] Standardizing Cloud Native Application Delivery Across Different Clouds](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0yhVuBIbHcI) <br> - [ [EU 2021] Zero Pain Microservice Development and Deployment with Dapr and KubeVela](https://sched.co/iE4S) |
| 📺 Conferences | - [Dapr, Rudr, OAM: Mark Russinovich presents next gen app development & deployment](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eJCu6a-x9uo) <br> - [Mark Russinovich presents "The Future of Cloud Native Applications with OAM and Dapr"](https://myignite.techcommunity.microsoft.com/sessions/82059)|

For more talks, please checkout [KubeVela Talks](https://kubevela.io/videos/talks/en/standardizing-app).

## Contributing

Check out [CONTRIBUTING](./CONTRIBUTING.md) to see how to develop with KubeVela.

## Report Vulnerability

Security is a first priority thing for us at KubeVela. If you come across a related issue, please send email to security@mail.kubevela.io .

## Code of Conduct

KubeVela adopts [CNCF Code of Conduct](https://github.com/cncf/foundation/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md).
