contribute/coding-conventions.md, before:

# KubeVela code conventions

- Bash

  - https://google.github.io/styleguide/shell.xml

  - Ensure that build, release, test, and cluster-management scripts run on
    macOS

- Go

  - [Go Code Review Comments](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/CodeReviewComments)

  - [Effective Go](https://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html)

  - Know and avoid [Go landmines](https://gist.github.com/lavalamp/4bd23295a9f32706a48f)

  - Comment your code.
    - [Go's commenting conventions](http://blog.golang.org/godoc-documenting-go-code)
    - If reviewers ask questions about why the code is the way it is, that's a
      sign that comments might be helpful.

  - Command-line flags should use dashes, not underscores

  - Naming
    - Please consider package name when selecting an interface name, and avoid
      redundancy.

      - e.g.: `storage.Interface` is better than `storage.StorageInterface`.

    - Do not use uppercase characters, underscores, or dashes in package
      names.
    - Please consider parent directory name when choosing a package name.

      - so pkg/controllers/autoscaler/foo.go should say `package autoscaler`
        not `package autoscalercontroller`.
      - Unless there's a good reason, the `package foo` line should match
        the name of the directory in which the .go file exists.
      - Importers can use a different name if they need to disambiguate.

    - Locks should be called `lock` and should never be embedded (always `lock
      sync.Mutex`). When multiple locks are present, give each lock a distinct name
      following Go conventions - `stateLock`, `mapLock` etc.

- KubeVela also follows the Kubernetes conventions

  - [API changes](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api_changes.md)

  - [API conventions](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md)
  
## Testing conventions

- All new packages and most new significant functionality must come with unit
  tests

- Table-driven tests are preferred for testing multiple scenarios/inputs; for
  example, see [TestNamespaceAuthorization](https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes/test/integration/auth/auth_test.go)
  
- Unit tests must pass on macOS and Windows platforms - if you use Linux
  specific features, your test case must either be skipped on windows or compiled
  out (skipped is better when running Linux specific commands, compiled out is
  required when your code does not compile on Windows).

- Avoid relying on Docker hub (e.g. pull from Docker hub). Use gcr.io instead.

- Avoid waiting for a short amount of time (or without waiting) and expect an
  asynchronous thing to happen (e.g. wait for 1 seconds and expect a Pod to be
  running). Wait and retry instead.

- Significant features should come with integration (test/integration) and/or
  end-to-end (e2e/) tests. TOOD(@wonderflow): add detail test guides.
  - Including new vela cli commands and major features of existing commands


## Directory and file conventions

- Avoid package sprawl. Find an appropriate subdirectory for new packages.
  - Libraries with no more appropriate home belong in new package
    subdirectories of pkg/util

- Avoid general utility packages. Packages called "util" are suspect. Instead,
  derive a name that describes your desired function. For example, the utility
  functions dealing with waiting for operations are in the "wait" package and
  include functionality like Poll. So the full name is wait.Poll

- All filenames should be lowercase

- Go source files and directories use underscores, not dashes
  - Package directories should generally avoid using separators as much as
    possible (when packages are multiple words, they usually should be in nested
    subdirectories).

- Document directories and filenames should use dashes rather than underscores

- Contrived examples that illustrate system features belong in
  /docs/user-guide or /docs/admin, depending on whether it is a feature primarily
  intended for users that deploy applications or cluster administrators,
  respectively. Actual application examples belong in /examples.
  - Examples should also illustrate [best practices for configuration and using the system](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/overview/)

- Third-party code

  - Go code for normal third-party dependencies is managed using
    [go modules](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Modules)

  - Other third-party code belongs in `/third_party`
    - forked third party Go code goes in `/third_party/forked`
    - forked _golang stdlib_ code goes in `/third_party/forked/golang`

  - Third-party code must include licenses

  - This includes modified third-party code and excerpts, as well
  
## Logging Conventions

### Structured logging

We recommend using `klog.InfoS` to structure the log. The `msg` argument need start from a capital letter.
and name arguments should always use lowerCamelCase.

```golang
// func InfoS(msg string, keysAndValues ...interface{})
klog.InfoS("Reconcile traitDefinition", "traitDefinition", klog.KRef(req.Namespace, req.Name))
// output:
// I0605 10:10:57.308074   22276 traitdefinition_controller.go:59] "Reconcile traitDefinition" traitDefinition="vela-system/expose"
```

### Use `klog.KObj` and `klog.KRef` for Kubernetes objects

`klog.KObj` and `klog.KRef` can unify the output of kubernetes object.

```golang
// KObj is used to create ObjectRef when logging information about Kubernetes objects
klog.InfoS("Start to reconcile", "appDeployment", klog.KObj(appDeployment))
// KRef is used to create ObjectRef when logging information about Kubernetes objects without access to metav1.Object
klog.InfoS("Reconcile application", "application", klog.KRef(req.Namespace, req.Name))
```

### Logging Level

[This file](https://github.com/oam-dev/kubevela/blob/master/pkg/controller/common/logs.go) contains KubeVela's log level,
you can set the log level by `klog.V(level)`.

```golang
// you can use klog.V(common.LogDebug) to print debug log
klog.V(common.LogDebug).InfoS("Successfully applied components", "workloads", len(workloads))
```

Looking for more details in [Structured Logging Guide](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-instrumentation/migration-to-structured-logging.md#structured-logging-in-kubernetes).


## Linting and formatting

To ensure consistency across the Go codebase, we require all code to pass a number of linter checks.

To run all linters, use the `reviewable` Makefile target:

```shell script
make reviewable
```

The command will clean code along with some lint checks. Please remember to check in all changes after that.

Commit message:

Fix: fix apiserver snake case
Signed-off-by: FogDong <dongtianxin.tx@alibaba-inc.com>

contribute/coding-conventions.md, after:

# KubeVela code conventions

- Bash

  - https://google.github.io/styleguide/shell.xml

  - Ensure that build, release, test, and cluster-management scripts run on
    macOS

- Go

  - [Go Code Review Comments](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/CodeReviewComments)

  - [Effective Go](https://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html)

  - Know and avoid [Go landmines](https://gist.github.com/lavalamp/4bd23295a9f32706a48f)

  - Comment your code.
    - [Go's commenting conventions](http://blog.golang.org/godoc-documenting-go-code)
    - If reviewers ask questions about why the code is the way it is, that's a
      sign that comments might be helpful.

  - Command-line flags should use dashes, not underscores

  - API
    - According to RFC3986, URLs are "case sensitive". KubeVela uses snake_case for API URLs.
      - e.g.: `POST /v1/cloud_clusters`

  - Naming
    - Please consider package name when selecting an interface name, and avoid
      redundancy.

      - e.g.: `storage.Interface` is better than `storage.StorageInterface`.

    - Do not use uppercase characters, underscores, or dashes in package
      names.
    - Please consider parent directory name when choosing a package name.

      - so pkg/controllers/autoscaler/foo.go should say `package autoscaler`
        not `package autoscalercontroller`.
      - Unless there's a good reason, the `package foo` line should match
        the name of the directory in which the .go file exists.
      - Importers can use a different name if they need to disambiguate.

    - Locks should be called `lock` and should never be embedded (always `lock
      sync.Mutex`). When multiple locks are present, give each lock a distinct name
      following Go conventions - `stateLock`, `mapLock` etc.

- KubeVela also follows the Kubernetes conventions

  - [API changes](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api_changes.md)

  - [API conventions](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-architecture/api-conventions.md)
  
## Testing conventions

- All new packages and most new significant functionality must come with unit
  tests

- Table-driven tests are preferred for testing multiple scenarios/inputs; for
  example, see [TestNamespaceAuthorization](https://git.k8s.io/kubernetes/test/integration/auth/auth_test.go)
  
- Unit tests must pass on macOS and Windows platforms - if you use Linux
  specific features, your test case must either be skipped on windows or compiled
  out (skipped is better when running Linux specific commands, compiled out is
  required when your code does not compile on Windows).

- Avoid relying on Docker hub (e.g. pull from Docker hub). Use gcr.io instead.

- Avoid waiting for a short amount of time (or without waiting) and expect an
  asynchronous thing to happen (e.g. wait for 1 seconds and expect a Pod to be
  running). Wait and retry instead.

- Significant features should come with integration (test/integration) and/or
  end-to-end (e2e/) tests. TOOD(@wonderflow): add detail test guides.
  - Including new vela cli commands and major features of existing commands


## Directory and file conventions

- Avoid package sprawl. Find an appropriate subdirectory for new packages.
  - Libraries with no more appropriate home belong in new package
    subdirectories of pkg/util

- Avoid general utility packages. Packages called "util" are suspect. Instead,
  derive a name that describes your desired function. For example, the utility
  functions dealing with waiting for operations are in the "wait" package and
  include functionality like Poll. So the full name is wait.Poll

- All filenames should be lowercase

- Go source files and directories use underscores, not dashes
  - Package directories should generally avoid using separators as much as
    possible (when packages are multiple words, they usually should be in nested
    subdirectories).

- Document directories and filenames should use dashes rather than underscores

- Contrived examples that illustrate system features belong in
  /docs/user-guide or /docs/admin, depending on whether it is a feature primarily
  intended for users that deploy applications or cluster administrators,
  respectively. Actual application examples belong in /examples.
  - Examples should also illustrate [best practices for configuration and using the system](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/overview/)

- Third-party code

  - Go code for normal third-party dependencies is managed using
    [go modules](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/Modules)

  - Other third-party code belongs in `/third_party`
    - forked third party Go code goes in `/third_party/forked`
    - forked _golang stdlib_ code goes in `/third_party/forked/golang`

  - Third-party code must include licenses

  - This includes modified third-party code and excerpts, as well
  
## Logging Conventions

### Structured logging

We recommend using `klog.InfoS` to structure the log. The `msg` argument need start from a capital letter.
and name arguments should always use lowerCamelCase.

```golang
// func InfoS(msg string, keysAndValues ...interface{})
klog.InfoS("Reconcile traitDefinition", "traitDefinition", klog.KRef(req.Namespace, req.Name))
// output:
// I0605 10:10:57.308074   22276 traitdefinition_controller.go:59] "Reconcile traitDefinition" traitDefinition="vela-system/expose"
```

### Use `klog.KObj` and `klog.KRef` for Kubernetes objects

`klog.KObj` and `klog.KRef` can unify the output of kubernetes object.

```golang
// KObj is used to create ObjectRef when logging information about Kubernetes objects
klog.InfoS("Start to reconcile", "appDeployment", klog.KObj(appDeployment))
// KRef is used to create ObjectRef when logging information about Kubernetes objects without access to metav1.Object
klog.InfoS("Reconcile application", "application", klog.KRef(req.Namespace, req.Name))
```

### Logging Level

[This file](https://github.com/oam-dev/kubevela/blob/master/pkg/controller/common/logs.go) contains KubeVela's log level,
you can set the log level by `klog.V(level)`.

```golang
// you can use klog.V(common.LogDebug) to print debug log
klog.V(common.LogDebug).InfoS("Successfully applied components", "workloads", len(workloads))
```

Looking for more details in [Structured Logging Guide](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-instrumentation/migration-to-structured-logging.md#structured-logging-in-kubernetes).


## Linting and formatting

To ensure consistency across the Go codebase, we require all code to pass a number of linter checks.

To run all linters, use the `reviewable` Makefile target:

```shell script
make reviewable
```

The command will clean code along with some lint checks. Please remember to check in all changes after that.
