references/plugins/def-doc/policy/garbage-collect.eg.md, before:

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1beta1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: first-vela-app
spec:
  components:
    - name: express-server
      type: webservice
      properties:
        image: oamdev/hello-world
        port: 8000
      traits:
        - type: ingress-1-20
          properties:
            domain: testsvc.example.com
            http:
              "/": 8000
  policies:
    - name: keep-legacy-resource
      type: garbage-collect
      properties:
        keepLegacyResource: true
```

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1beta1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: garbage-collect-app
spec:
  components:
    - name: hello-world-new
      type: webservice
      properties:
        image: oamdev/hello-world
      traits:
        - type: expose
          properties:
            port: [8000]
  policies:
    - name: garbage-collect
      type: garbage-collect
      properties:
        rules:
          - selector:
              traitTypes:
                - expose
            strategy: onAppDelete
```

Commit message:

Chore: update description of policy definition
Signed-off-by: Jianbo Sun <jianbo.sjb@alibaba-inc.com>
(cherry picked from commit 679ee6d8cd74c988a595bd3da15e9a748ba75aa3)

references/plugins/def-doc/policy/garbage-collect.eg.md, after:

It's used in [garbage collection](../policies/gc) scenario. It can be used to configure the collection policy, e.g. don't delete the legacy resources when updating.

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1beta1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: first-vela-app
spec:
  components:
    - name: express-server
      type: webservice
      properties:
        image: oamdev/hello-world
        port: 8000
      traits:
        - type: ingress-1-20
          properties:
            domain: testsvc.example.com
            http:
              "/": 8000
  policies:
    - name: keep-legacy-resource
      type: garbage-collect
      properties:
        keepLegacyResource: true
```

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1beta1
kind: Application
metadata:
  name: garbage-collect-app
spec:
  components:
    - name: hello-world-new
      type: webservice
      properties:
        image: oamdev/hello-world
      traits:
        - type: expose
          properties:
            port: [8000]
  policies:
    - name: garbage-collect
      type: garbage-collect
      properties:
        rules:
          - selector:
              traitTypes:
                - expose
            strategy: onAppDelete
```
