charts/vela-core/README.md, before:

<div style="text-align: center">
  <p align="center">
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oam-dev/kubevela.io/main/docs/resources/KubeVela-03.png">
    <br><br>
    <i>Make shipping applications more enjoyable.</i>
  </p>
</div>

![Build status](https://github.com/oam-dev/kubevela/workflows/E2E/badge.svg)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/oam-dev/kubevela)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/oam-dev/kubevela)
![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/oamdev/vela-core)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/oam-dev/kubevela/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/oam-dev/kubevela)
[![LICENSE](https://img.shields.io/github/license/oam-dev/kubevela.svg?style=flat-square)](/LICENSE)
[![Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/release/oam-dev/kubevela/all.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/oam-dev/kubevela/releases)
[![TODOs](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://api.tickgit.com/badge?repo=github.com/oam-dev/kubevela)](https://www.tickgit.com/browse?repo=github.com/oam-dev/kubevela)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url?style=social&url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Foam_dev)](https://twitter.com/oam_dev)
[![Artifact HUB](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://artifacthub.io/badge/repository/kubevela)](https://artifacthub.io/packages/search?repo=kubevela)
[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/4602/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/4602)

# KubeVela helm chart

KubeVela is a modern application platform that makes it easier and faster to deliver and manage applications across hybrid,
multi-cloud environments. At the mean time, it is highly extensible and programmable, which can adapt to your needs as they grow.

## TL;DR

```bash
helm repo add kubevela https://charts.kubevela.net/core
helm repo update
helm install --create-namespace -n vela-system kubevela kubevela/vela-core --wait
```

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes >= v1.19 && < v1.22
  
## Parameters

### KubeVela core parameters

| Name                          | Description                                                                                   | Value     |
| ----------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| `systemDefinitionNamespace`   | System definition namespace, if unspecified, will use built-in variable `.Release.Namespace`. | `nil`     |
| `applicationRevisionLimit`    | Application revision limit                                                                    | `10`      |
| `definitionRevisionLimit`     | Definition revision limit                                                                     | `20`      |
| `concurrentReconciles`        | concurrentReconciles is the concurrent reconcile number of the controller                     | `4`       |
| `controllerArgs.reSyncPeriod` | The period for resync the applications                                                        | `5m`      |
| `OAMSpecVer`                  | OAMSpecVer is the oam spec version controller want to setup                                   | `v0.3`    |
| `disableCaps`                 | Disable capability                                                                            | `rollout` |
| `enableFluxcdAddon`           | Whether to enable fluxcd addon                                                                | `false`   |
| `dependCheckWait`             | dependCheckWait is the time to wait for ApplicationConfiguration's dependent-resource ready   | `30s`     |


### KubeVela workflow parameters

| Name                                   | Description                                            | Value |
| -------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ----- |
| `workflow.backoff.maxTime.waitState`   | The max backoff time of workflow in a wait condition   | `60`  |
| `workflow.backoff.maxTime.failedState` | The max backoff time of workflow in a failed condition | `300` |
| `workflow.step.errorRetryTimes`        | The max retry times of a failed workflow step          | `10`  |


### KubeVela controller parameters

| Name                        | Description                          | Value              |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------ |
| `replicaCount`              | KubeVela controller replica count    | `1`                |
| `imageRegistry`             | Image registry                       | `""`               |
| `image.repository`          | Image repository                     | `oamdev/vela-core` |
| `image.tag`                 | Image tag                            | `latest`           |
| `image.pullPolicy`          | Image pull policy                    | `Always`           |
| `resources.limits.cpu`      | KubeVela controller's cpu limit      | `500m`             |
| `resources.limits.memory`   | KubeVela controller's memory limit   | `1Gi`              |
| `resources.requests.cpu`    | KubeVela controller's cpu request    | `50m`              |
| `resources.requests.memory` | KubeVela controller's memory request | `20Mi`             |
| `webhookService.type`       | KubeVela webhook service type        | `ClusterIP`        |
| `webhookService.port`       | KubeVela webhook service port        | `9443`             |
| `healthCheck.port`          | KubeVela health check port           | `9440`             |


### MultiCluster parameters

| Name                                                  | Description                      | Value                            |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| `multicluster.enabled`                                | Whether to enable multi-cluster  | `true`                           |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.replicaCount`            | ClusterGateway replica count     | `1`                              |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.port`                    | ClusterGateway port              | `9443`                           |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.image.repository`        | ClusterGateway image repository  | `oamdev/cluster-gateway`         |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.image.tag`               | ClusterGateway image tag         | `v1.3.2`                         |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.image.pullPolicy`        | ClusterGateway image pull policy | `IfNotPresent`                   |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.resources.limits.cpu`    | ClusterGateway cpu limit         | `100m`                           |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.resources.limits.memory` | ClusterGateway memory limit      | `200Mi`                          |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.secureTLS.enabled`       | Whether to enable secure TLS     | `true`                           |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.secureTLS.certPath`      | Path to the certificate file     | `/etc/k8s-cluster-gateway-certs` |


### Test parameters

| Name                  | Description         | Value                |
| --------------------- | ------------------- | -------------------- |
| `test.app.repository` | Test app repository | `oamdev/hello-world` |
| `test.app.tag`        | Test app tag        | `v1`                 |
| `test.k8s.repository` | Test k8s repository | `oamdev/alpine-k8s`  |
| `test.k8s.tag`        | Test k8s tag        | `1.18.2`             |


### Common parameters

| Name                         | Description                                                                                                                | Value   |
| ---------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `imagePullSecrets`           | Image pull secrets                                                                                                         | `[]`    |
| `nameOverride`               | Override name                                                                                                              | `""`    |
| `fullnameOverride`           | Fullname override                                                                                                          | `""`    |
| `serviceAccount.create`      | Specifies whether a service account should be created                                                                      | `true`  |
| `serviceAccount.annotations` | Annotations to add to the service account                                                                                  | `{}`    |
| `serviceAccount.name`        | The name of the service account to use. If not set and create is true, a name is generated using the fullname template     | `nil`   |
| `nodeSelector`               | Node selector                                                                                                              | `{}`    |
| `tolerations`                | Tolerations                                                                                                                | `[]`    |
| `affinity`                   | Affinity                                                                                                                   | `{}`    |
| `rbac.create`                | Specifies whether a RBAC role should be created                                                                            | `true`  |
| `logDebug`                   | Enable debug logs for development purpose                                                                                  | `false` |
| `logFilePath`                | If non-empty, write log files in this path                                                                                 | `""`    |
| `logFileMaxSize`             | Defines the maximum size a log file can grow to. Unit is megabytes. If the value is 0, the maximum file size is unlimited. | `1024`  |
| `kubeClient.qps`             | The qps for reconcile clients, default is 50                                                                               | `50`    |
| `kubeClient.burst`           | The burst for reconcile clients, default is 100                                                                            | `100`   |


## Uninstallation

### Vela CLI 

To uninstall KubeVela, you can just run the following command by vela CLI:

```shell
vela uninstall --force
```

### Helm CLI

**Notice**: You must disable all the addons before uninstallation, this is a script for convenience. 

```shell
#! /bin/sh
addon=$(vela addon list|grep enabled|awk {'print $1'})

fluxcd=false
for var in ${addon[*]}
do
  if [ $var == "fluxcd" ]; then
      fluxcd=true
      continue
      else
        vela addon disable $var
  fi
done
if [ $fluxcd ]; then
    vela addon disable fluxcd
fi
```

To uninstall the KubeVela helm release:

```shell
$ helm uninstall -n vela-system kubevela
```

Finally, this command will remove all the Kubernetes resources associated with KubeVela and remove this chart release.

Commit message:

Feat: Expose optimizeDisableComponentRevision in helm chart (#3470)
* Feat: Expose optimizeDisableComponentRevision in helm chart

Signed-off-by: michiel <michiel.stigter@springer.com>

* Feat: Expose optimizeDisableComponentRevision in helm chart

Signed-off-by: michiel <michiel.stigter@springer.com>

* Feat: Expose optimizeDisableComponentRevision in helm chart

Signed-off-by: michiel <michiel.stigter@springer.com>

* Feat: Expose optimizeDisableComponentRevision in helm chart

Signed-off-by: michiel <michiel.stigter@springer.com>

* Feat: Add all the other possible optimization params to the helm-values.

Taken from: https://kubevela.io/docs/platform-engineers/system-operation/performance-finetuning#advanced-optimization

Signed-off-by: michiel <michiel.stigter@springer.com>
Signed-off-by: s4rd1nh4 <diego.milhomes@gmail.com>

charts/vela-core/README.md, after:

<div style="text-align: center">
  <p align="center">
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oam-dev/kubevela.io/main/docs/resources/KubeVela-03.png">
    <br><br>
    <i>Make shipping applications more enjoyable.</i>
  </p>
</div>

![Build status](https://github.com/oam-dev/kubevela/workflows/E2E/badge.svg)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/oam-dev/kubevela)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/oam-dev/kubevela)
![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/oamdev/vela-core)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/oam-dev/kubevela/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/oam-dev/kubevela)
[![LICENSE](https://img.shields.io/github/license/oam-dev/kubevela.svg?style=flat-square)](/LICENSE)
[![Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/release/oam-dev/kubevela/all.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/oam-dev/kubevela/releases)
[![TODOs](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://api.tickgit.com/badge?repo=github.com/oam-dev/kubevela)](https://www.tickgit.com/browse?repo=github.com/oam-dev/kubevela)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url?style=social&url=https%3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Foam_dev)](https://twitter.com/oam_dev)
[![Artifact HUB](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://artifacthub.io/badge/repository/kubevela)](https://artifacthub.io/packages/search?repo=kubevela)
[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/4602/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/4602)

# KubeVela helm chart

KubeVela is a modern application platform that makes it easier and faster to deliver and manage applications across hybrid,
multi-cloud environments. At the mean time, it is highly extensible and programmable, which can adapt to your needs as they grow.

## TL;DR

```bash
helm repo add kubevela https://charts.kubevela.net/core
helm repo update
helm install --create-namespace -n vela-system kubevela kubevela/vela-core --wait
```

## Prerequisites

- Kubernetes >= v1.19 && < v1.22
  
## Parameters

### KubeVela core parameters

| Name                          | Description                                                                                   | Value     |
| ----------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| `systemDefinitionNamespace`   | System definition namespace, if unspecified, will use built-in variable `.Release.Namespace`. | `nil`     |
| `applicationRevisionLimit`    | Application revision limit                                                                    | `10`      |
| `definitionRevisionLimit`     | Definition revision limit                                                                     | `20`      |
| `concurrentReconciles`        | concurrentReconciles is the concurrent reconcile number of the controller                     | `4`       |
| `controllerArgs.reSyncPeriod` | The period for resync the applications                                                        | `5m`      |
| `OAMSpecVer`                  | OAMSpecVer is the oam spec version controller want to setup                                   | `v0.3`    |
| `disableCaps`                 | Disable capability                                                                            | `rollout` |
| `enableFluxcdAddon`           | Whether to enable fluxcd addon                                                                | `false`   |
| `dependCheckWait`             | dependCheckWait is the time to wait for ApplicationConfiguration's dependent-resource ready   | `30s`     |


### KubeVela workflow parameters

| Name                                   | Description                                            | Value |
| -------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | ----- |
| `workflow.backoff.maxTime.waitState`   | The max backoff time of workflow in a wait condition   | `60`  |
| `workflow.backoff.maxTime.failedState` | The max backoff time of workflow in a failed condition | `300` |
| `workflow.step.errorRetryTimes`        | The max retry times of a failed workflow step          | `10`  |


### KubeVela controller parameters

| Name                        | Description                          | Value              |
| --------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------ |
| `replicaCount`              | KubeVela controller replica count    | `1`                |
| `imageRegistry`             | Image registry                       | `""`               |
| `image.repository`          | Image repository                     | `oamdev/vela-core` |
| `image.tag`                 | Image tag                            | `latest`           |
| `image.pullPolicy`          | Image pull policy                    | `Always`           |
| `resources.limits.cpu`      | KubeVela controller's cpu limit      | `500m`             |
| `resources.limits.memory`   | KubeVela controller's memory limit   | `1Gi`              |
| `resources.requests.cpu`    | KubeVela controller's cpu request    | `50m`              |
| `resources.requests.memory` | KubeVela controller's memory request | `20Mi`             |
| `webhookService.type`       | KubeVela webhook service type        | `ClusterIP`        |
| `webhookService.port`       | KubeVela webhook service port        | `9443`             |
| `healthCheck.port`          | KubeVela health check port           | `9440`             |


### KubeVela controller optimization parameters

| Name                                              | Description                                                                                                                                       | Value   |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `optimize.optimizeCachedGvks`                     | Optimize types of resources to be cached.                                                                                                         | `nil`   |
| `optimize.resourceTrackerListOp`                  | Optimize ResourceTracker List Op by adding index.                                                                                                 | `true`  |
| `optimize.controllerReconcileLoopReduction`       | Optimize ApplicationController reconcile by reducing the number of loops to reconcile application.                                                | `false` |
| `optimize.markWithProb`                           | Optimize ResourceTracker GC by only run mark with probability. Side effect: outdated ResourceTracker might not be able to be removed immediately. | `0.1`   |
| `optimize.disableComponentRevision`               | Optimize componentRevision by disabling the creation and gc                                                                                       | `false` |
| `optimize.disableApplicationRevision`             | Optimize ApplicationRevision by disabling the creation and gc.                                                                                    | `false` |
| `optimize.disableWorkflowRecorder`                | Optimize workflow recorder by disabling the creation and gc.                                                                                      | `false` |
| `optimize.enableInMemoryWorkflowContext`          | Optimize workflow by use in-memory context.                                                                                                       | `false` |
| `optimize.disableResourceApplyDoubleCheck`        | Optimize workflow by ignoring resource double check after apply.                                                                                  | `false` |
| `optimize.enableResourceTrackerDeleteOnlyTrigger` | Optimize resourcetracker by only trigger reconcile when resourcetracker is deleted.                                                               | `true`  |


### MultiCluster parameters

| Name                                                  | Description                      | Value                            |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| `multicluster.enabled`                                | Whether to enable multi-cluster  | `true`                           |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.replicaCount`            | ClusterGateway replica count     | `1`                              |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.port`                    | ClusterGateway port              | `9443`                           |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.image.repository`        | ClusterGateway image repository  | `oamdev/cluster-gateway`         |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.image.tag`               | ClusterGateway image tag         | `v1.3.2`                         |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.image.pullPolicy`        | ClusterGateway image pull policy | `IfNotPresent`                   |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.resources.limits.cpu`    | ClusterGateway cpu limit         | `100m`                           |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.resources.limits.memory` | ClusterGateway memory limit      | `200Mi`                          |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.secureTLS.enabled`       | Whether to enable secure TLS     | `true`                           |
| `multicluster.clusterGateway.secureTLS.certPath`      | Path to the certificate file     | `/etc/k8s-cluster-gateway-certs` |


### Test parameters

| Name                  | Description         | Value                |
| --------------------- | ------------------- | -------------------- |
| `test.app.repository` | Test app repository | `oamdev/hello-world` |
| `test.app.tag`        | Test app tag        | `v1`                 |
| `test.k8s.repository` | Test k8s repository | `oamdev/alpine-k8s`  |
| `test.k8s.tag`        | Test k8s tag        | `1.18.2`             |


### Common parameters

| Name                         | Description                                                                                                                | Value   |
| ---------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `imagePullSecrets`           | Image pull secrets                                                                                                         | `[]`    |
| `nameOverride`               | Override name                                                                                                              | `""`    |
| `fullnameOverride`           | Fullname override                                                                                                          | `""`    |
| `serviceAccount.create`      | Specifies whether a service account should be created                                                                      | `true`  |
| `serviceAccount.annotations` | Annotations to add to the service account                                                                                  | `{}`    |
| `serviceAccount.name`        | The name of the service account to use. If not set and create is true, a name is generated using the fullname template     | `nil`   |
| `nodeSelector`               | Node selector                                                                                                              | `{}`    |
| `tolerations`                | Tolerations                                                                                                                | `[]`    |
| `affinity`                   | Affinity                                                                                                                   | `{}`    |
| `rbac.create`                | Specifies whether a RBAC role should be created                                                                            | `true`  |
| `logDebug`                   | Enable debug logs for development purpose                                                                                  | `false` |
| `logFilePath`                | If non-empty, write log files in this path                                                                                 | `""`    |
| `logFileMaxSize`             | Defines the maximum size a log file can grow to. Unit is megabytes. If the value is 0, the maximum file size is unlimited. | `1024`  |
| `kubeClient.qps`             | The qps for reconcile clients, default is 50                                                                               | `50`    |
| `kubeClient.burst`           | The burst for reconcile clients, default is 100                                                                            | `100`   |


## Uninstallation

### Vela CLI 

To uninstall KubeVela, you can just run the following command by vela CLI:

```shell
vela uninstall --force
```

### Helm CLI

**Notice**: You must disable all the addons before uninstallation, this is a script for convenience. 

```shell
#! /bin/sh
addon=$(vela addon list|grep enabled|awk {'print $1'})

fluxcd=false
for var in ${addon[*]}
do
  if [ $var == "fluxcd" ]; then
      fluxcd=true
      continue
      else
        vela addon disable $var
  fi
done
if [ $fluxcd ]; then
    vela addon disable fluxcd
fi
```

To uninstall the KubeVela helm release:

```shell
$ helm uninstall -n vela-system kubevela
```

Finally, this command will remove all the Kubernetes resources associated with KubeVela and remove this chart release.
